this nearly perfect sphere of hot plasma
is your first destination to get there
you have to travel
almost 93 million miles or one
astronomical unit
that's 400 times more than the distance
to the moon
the closer you get the more confused you
become the sun's surface
looks like scorched earth or caramelized
popcorn
and then it just clicks this pattern is
created by the boiling gas surrounding
the star
each individual cell you see is actually
the size of texas
this gas is moving in a rolling motion
at incredible speeds
this process creates so-called solar
granules
some spots looks brighter that's where
scorching hot solar material has risen
closer to the surface
when it cools down and sinks you can see
dark lanes
in these dark areas there are bright
specks those are magnetic
field markers you don't dare have a
closer look
because the sun's surface temperature is
10 000 degrees fahrenheit
but this number pales in comparison with
how hot the star's core is
27 million degrees it's getting too hot
time to move further the closest planet
to the sun
is mercury once you see it you think
something's gone wrong
and your spacecraft has followed the
wrong route the place looks eerily
similar to the good old moon
a few moments later though you realize
it's just an illusion
mercury is one of the four rocky planets
of the solar system
as why you can actually step on its
surface all around you see craters
created by space rocks
it would take your rover about eight
days to travel all the way
around the planet but driving on mercury
wouldn't be a simple task
its surface is littered with gigantic
hills with steep slopes
some of them reach a height of two miles
and stretch for hundreds of miles
that's good you're wearing a special
spacesuit mercury doesn't have an
atmosphere
and the temperatures on the planet are
extreme 800 degrees during the day
and minus 290 degrees at night
now venus turns out to be very different
from the bluish planet you saw in
pictures
before landing you have to get through a
super dense atmosphere that's made up of
carbon dioxide
while your spacecraft's descending you
watch thick clouds of sulfuric acid
passed by
soon you realize the planet's surface is
actually
reddish brown it's a dry and hot place
with a pressure 90 times greater than
that on earth
you've landed in the middle of a flat
smooth plane
such planes cover two-thirds of the
planet's surface
but several miles away you see a large
mountain
that's a volcano and it might be a still
active one
you also spot long winding canals
those are old lava flows and some of
them reach 3 000 miles in length
it's longer than on any other planet the
planet's dense atmosphere
creates a greenhouse effect similar to
that on earth
it traps heat and temperatures on venus
rise up to 880 degrees
that's hot enough to melt lead that's
why it's unwise to stay on the planet
for too long
your spacecraft won't survive it your
first impression about
mars it's freezing cold the temperatures
here drop down to minus 80 degrees
even from afar the planet looks reddish
once you make your first step on the
martian surface
you understand why the ground is covered
with rusty colored dust
the same fine dust is floating around
you wherever you look
you see golden brown tan and even
greenish hues
they depend on the minerals that make up
the soil the size of the dust layer
varies from
area to area but in most places it's
seven
feet thick the planet's surface is rocky
it's covered with dry lake beds craters
volcanoes and canyons
the tallest planetary mountain in the
solar system
olympus mons is on mars it's two and a
half times higher than mount everest
and about the size of arizona across
martian atmosphere is much thinner than
earth's and contains
95 percent carbon dioxide and a mere one
percent of oxygen dust storms sometimes
cover the entire planet
and the largest ones can even be seen
from earth
you're approaching the largest planet in
the solar system
more than 89 000 miles wide at the
equator
jupiter is so large it could fit 1300
earths inside of it it's also
terrifyingly hot
about 43 000 degrees at the core
unfortunately you can't really land on
the planet
jupiter is a gas giant with an
atmosphere made up of hydrogen
and helium gas during your descent you
admire
thick brown yellow red and white clouds
they make the planet look colorful and
beautifully striped
if you kept going deeper toward the
center of the planet you'd see hydrogen
turn liquid
but such a dive isn't on your agenda
you've come to see the great red spot
that's an enormous spinning storm the
size of our home planet
it's been raging for the last 360 years
the hurricane's color varies from pale
salmon in white
to dark brick red like jupiter
saturn doesn't have any solid surface
this planet is made up of mostly
hydrogen and helium
and its temperature and density change
the deeper you go
if you decided to leave your spacecraft
and step on saturn's surface
you just fall into the planet from above
though
it looks as if the gas giant does have a
surface
the seemingly solid yellowish brown
sphere is surrounded by layers of clouds
the outer visible layer is ammonia
clouds under them
there are hydrosulfide clouds
and the innermost layer is made up of
clouds of water
while admiring the planet from above you
notice its most
famous feature awesome gray beige and
tan
rings these groups of tiny ringlets are
made of chunks of rock and ice
you also spot several of the 53 moons of
saturn
titan an icy world bigger than our moon
and even mercury
is the largest of them saturn check
the next planet on your way is a blue
green ball of
ice and gas ice giant uranus has this
beautiful hue
thanks to the light from the sun which
gets reflected off the planet's surface
the planet isn't solid if your
spacecraft didn't manage to stop in time
it would fly through the upper
atmosphere and sink into the liquid icy
center
uranus is orbiting the sun on its side
it's the only planet with its axis
pointing almost directly at our star it
might be because of a collision with a
large space
body soon after formation you're lucky
it's summer on the planet
that's why you can observe an extreme
storm
such hurricanes occur only when uranus
is heated to
its most the hurricane spreads over more
than 6 000 miles
which is almost the distance between
japan and the us
you also managed to gape at the planet's
two sets of rings
the inner ring system consists of narrow
dark circles
while the two outer rings are bright one
blue and one red
the furthest planet from the sun neptune
is four
times the size of earth but 17 times as
heavy
the blue surface you see when coming
closer is actually a layer of swirling
gas
and permanent clouds the planet's mantle
made up of water
ammonia and methane ices is the closest
thing neptune has to a surface
and still there isn't solid ground for
you to walk on
let's say you made a decision to get
down to the very core of the planet
then you'd feel great temperature
changes from -340 degrees at the surface
to more than 12 000 degrees at the core
such mind-boggling temperature
differences create powerful wind storms
their speed reaches 1200 miles per hour
okay here's your arm and leg back it's
time to go home